The app we built thus far works, but there is one thing which we can change for which I at least want
to have you think about on the orders screen, we change this to be a stateful widget simply because
I wanted to use it.
It stayed here.
And by the way, as I mentioned in a couple of annotations at the top of the video, during the videos,
if you are using listen, Falls is we're doing it here.
You don't even need Dettelbach.
And you would be fine running that code without that future Delate around it.
So you could actually get rid of all of that.
Of course, you then can't away use a wait here, though, because you're not in the async function.
And turning this into a async function is not what you should do.
But of course you could then use then year to run your code that should run once the future is complete.
So you could move that set state call here into here and does first set say said state call is obsolete
because we don't need that.
This will run before build runs without that future delayed work around.
So we can just set is true then have this here and this will work as well.
If you use listen falls here.
That's also the difference to model wrote off and so on, which didn't work here and it stayed there.
We simply don't have such a list, an option.
The provider package simply internally gives you an option to opt out of certain functionalities that
would normally be connected with the inherited widget and dust tunnel, which is established with the
help of context and with these missing features which you deliberately opt out of with lists and false.
You can use provider of context here because you basically use only a limited set of the features of
that inherited widget thing behind the scenes.
So you could do that here.
You could do this in all places with provider.
If you can't use lists and falls on things like Motor Rutan's on, that's not supported there.
But that's not the main thing I wanted to focus on.
It's just something I again want to mention here.
The core thing I wanted to mention is that we're building a stateful widget here simply such we can
use an estate state to initialize our data.
And I think that makes sense because we want to have a place in our app where we can make that call,
which only runs once when this screen gets rendered.
For example, making that fetch to build method would be horrible because that method runs way too often.
And actually we would even enter an infinite loop if we start calling Sad State and er or if we then
fetched our orders and build runs again and we start fetching again.
And so making the fetch and build certainly is not an option.
There is, however, an alternative to turning this into a stateful widget and using in its state.
And it's that alternative which I now want to show you.
So let me comment this out here in its state, and therefore we have an interstate method, which,
of course, could also remove a let me show you that alternative here in that body.
In the end, the content we render depends on the question whether we're still fetching data or whether
we already got a response.
Right.
So what we can do here is we can use a special widget which is built into flutter, and that's the future
builder widget.
The future builder widget takes a future and then automatically starts listening to that.
So it adds the then and the catch error methods for you, you could say, and it takes a builder which
will get the current snapshot to current state of your future so that you can build different content
based on what your future return.
So here we can set up a future.
And our future, of course, is the future written by a provider of fetch and set orders.
So we can copy that line here and then go down here and configure that as the future, because veterans
at orders, of course, does return a future.
So that's the future for our future builder.
Now, with the future set up, we also have to define a builder, and that's a builder, as you generally
already know it.
It's a function which gets executed on your behalf.
It receives a context.
And here you also receive an extra argument, and that's your current data currently returned by your
futures.
So a data snapshot, you could say this should then return to where did you want to build?
And now what did you want to build?
Of course, simply depends on the state of that future.
So let's actually use the more complex or to longer function definition without that arrow so that we
can write a multiline function body.
And here we can, first of all, have a look at the data snapshot to find out what's in there.
The data snapshot here is of type async snapshot, and if you add a dot after it, you see that there
you can find out if you have an error object or the data which you retrieved and also what the current
connection status and that tells you what the future is currently doing.
You can compare this to Conexion state and for example, there you can find out whether it's currently
waiting.
So whatever the future hasn't resolved yet or whatever it's done and when it's done, you will have
to check whether you've got data or an error.
So here we can check if data snapshot connection state is currently equal to Conexion state waiting,
which means we're currently loading.
So in that case, of course, I want to return decentered widget here, so I will return this year.
Else I know we're done and then you could check if data snapshot error is equal to null, in which case,
you know, you have no error or your other way around if it's not equal to null, in which case you
have an error and then you wonder, do you error handling stuff here, which I'll not do here, but
which you could do alternatively else, you know, you have no error.
And then here I want to return that list.
You so let's get rid of that down there.
Now we don't need is loading anymore.
So here I'll just return the list U builder and in case we should have an error, I'll just return a
standard widget.
With a child race, a text, an error occurred just to have something on the screen and return some
which in that case, but I focus on the success case and here we return our list view builder with the
order data, which should now be available because we're done fetching our orders.
Now, one important note about this set up, though, right now, we would enter an infinite loop here,
because when does this done fetching and setting the orders, it will notify listeners.
And since we set up a listener to orders here, our whole build method would run again.
We would build a new feel future builder here and send a new request and that would keep on going.
So the solution here is to not set up the listener up here for the audio data because we don't need
the audio data up there, but simply use a consumer of the audio data in here in that case here, because
only here I'm interested in order data.
So here we can set up a consumer.
Of our orders.
Where we intend to find a builder, where we get the context and our order data then and now, here
it is where I actually want to render that list, because that's now the place where we actually need
our orders and we want to where we want to set up a listener.
And important, of course, here you have all day the third argument, that child dead, static child,
which never changes, which you could use.
Now, we should have a set up which actually works and fetches our orders without entering an infinite
loop.
And just to check this, I'll also add a print statement here in the build method, building orders.
So this should now not run all the time.
Let's now see whether that works.
So here I'll go to my orders.
We see the Spiner, we see the orders, and back here we see that this was only executed once.
And this is now the more elegant alternative to using a stateful widget just to fetch orders and show
a loading spinner.
And the advantage is also that we don't just save that useless transformation to a stateful widget.
We also don't have to manage the loading state on our own because we're letting the future builder do
that by checking the connections state.
So now what we can do here, of course, is we can get rid of in its state and of course, is loading
property, get rid of our estate class.
And convert this your back.
To a state less widget, as it was before, and now this is a very lean widget, of course.
And we can do a hot refresh to have the same application as before, but now with a more elegant setup
for our orders and obviously you could use such a future builder as we're using it here in your average,
it's too eager to turn them back into status widgets or if you had reasons for making them stateful
widgets, even in such cases, to not manage to is loading variable on your own, but instead let the
future builder do that.
I'll leave that here and I'll also leave the other approaches in this app so that you can see and check
both.
But using the future builder is definitely the approach I would recommend because it's so elegant and
it utilizes the tools Flattr gives you.
As a side note, it, of course, also avoids rebuilding this entire widget trigger just because the
loading state changed.
Instead, it will really just rebuild the parts that do need rebuilding.
So that's another benefit we get here.
So we added future Beyler here and here, everything works as intended.
However, I want to highlight one potential issue you could be facing in other applications and therefore
a better way of using future builder.
The way we use it here works absolutely fine in this app and in this widget.
But if you had something in this widget which cause us to build method to run again, some other state
you're managing or anything like that, then fetch and set orders would of course, also be executed.
Right, because they've build runs again, this entire code here runs again and therefore this method
would run again.
This, of course, means that a new future would be obtained here.
And that, of course, in turn means that a new future would be obtained.
And then, of course, in turn means that this HTP request is sent again and so on, and that is something
we might want to avoid if just something else changed in this widget, if there is no reason to fetch
new orders, let's say you were presenting an overlay, a dialogue to the user, and hence the build
method executes again, you definitely don't want to fetch new orders just because something else changed
in this widget, which doesn't affect the orders.
Therefore, it is considered a better practice to obtain this future differently.
Even though I will emphasize that again, this approach will not cause any problems here, since we
have no other state changing logic in this widget here.
But if you had that, a better way of getting and using that future would be to convert your orders
screen to a state full widget, which I quickly do here with refactoring.
And with that converted in your state clause, you should add a property of type future, for example,
named.
Orders future.
Then you add a new method which returns a future which you could name.
Obtain orders.
Future like this and in this method, you then return the result of this call to fetch and set orders,
which of course will give you a future.
So you return this future here.
Now as a last step, you should add in its state here and before you call super in its state, you set
orders future.
So this property is equal to the result of calling obtain orders future.
So with that, we just have a clean way of getting our future and storing it in a property when this
widget is created and then you use disorders, orders, future property in your build method as a future
here for the future builder.
By using this approach, you ensure that no new future is created just because your which it rebuilds
again, this is not a scenario we have here.
This widget won't rebuild unintendedly.
But if you had a scenario data, which it could be rebuilt and you don't want to fetch new orders just
because something else changed, then using this approach is better and ensures that no unnecessary
HTP requests are sent.
And therefore this is considered to be a good practice, which I also wanted to show you.